With the big battles of the 1956 Democratic Convention fought and won all that remains
for the final evening session of the Chicago meeting is the formal acceptance features
of the candidates.
Members of the Convention, it is a high privilege that I have in preventing to use the next
speaker.
He has demonstrated time and time again that he is a boat-gatherer.
Whether in Tennessee or throughout the length of bread of the United States.
He is a wonderful member of a wonderful and winning team.
These two men in my opinion will go forth and wager about it.
Every Democrat in America will be proud of and they will wage a winning battle.
It is my privilege and I deem it an honor to present your choice for the Democratic nomination
of the Vice President of the United States.
Ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank Mr. Speaker Rayburn for introducing me in such generous
terms to you tonight.
There is no man in the United States under whom more people in public life have studied
and been taught and have studied under the distinguished speaker of the House of Representatives,
Mr. Sam Rayburn.
And he never forgets this.
He is always generous in his reference to us.
Friends I am profoundly grateful to you delegates to this convention for the honor that you
have paid me.
I accept this honor with much humility.
I accept the responsibility which it entails.
I want to promise you that I will work and fight for victory as hard as I possibly can.
And then many of my efforts, I hope to have my special secret weapon along with me, whom
you saw here with me just a few minutes ago.
This I think has been a magnificent convention.
It marks the first time in contemporary American history in which a great political party
shows its vice presidential candidate in a free and open convention.
This adds greatly to my pride that I was successful.
There certainly weren't any smoke-filled room decisions made here this afternoon.
And I want to say friends that if these distinguished men, Avril Harman and the others who put
on such magnificent campaigns yesterday for the presidency, John Kennedy and my other
good friends who made noble and remarkable and clean hard campaigns for the vice presidential
nomination this afternoon.
If they will just work in the months to come as hard as they have worked in this convention,
then we sure are going to succeed.
And I'm sure that they and all of the fine young men and women that we have in our Democratic
Party and we are fortunate in having so many that they are going to do just that.
I applaud any extension of the democratic process.
And this was certainly one.
I hope that it will set a precedent for the future.
It will be very interesting to see whether this precedent is going to be followed in San Francisco
next week.
And never had been such an outstanding men as I had to contend against this afternoon.
And as Governor Stevenson had to contend against yesterday, I had a number of calls after the
convention this afternoon from many of my friends and supporters.
So many of them say that while they were joyous over the outcome, that their joy was
somewhat saddened by the fact that they could not be for all of the candidates for the
vice presidential nomination here this afternoon.
As Edley Stevenson, our candidate for president, has already made unique contributions both
to the philosophy and to the tone of politics.
His unusual gift of intellect and width are known to all.
Perhaps on no better than most, his capacity as an effective and untiring fighter.
I found out the hard way.
And I know that he is going to lead us in a vigorous hard-hitting campaign that's going
to be successful.
And believe me, when I say that, I ought to know because I found out myself.
I know that in the forthcoming campaign, Mr. Stevenson, will bring to the American people
fresh understanding of our grave problems at home and abroad.
I salute him as our leader.
I wish to pay tribute also to you, President Summon, for your courage and foresight in a
difficult world has given us pride and satisfaction today.
And it has given us inspiration for tomorrow.
I'm sure that all of you good Democrats and Democrats everywhere who may be looking
at us today and tonight understand that we face a heavy task in the months to come.
Because of your support, it will be a task confidently undertaken.
The Republican Party has tried to imprint itself in the past four years, yet the failures
of the Republicans to solve the problems of our people at home and the drift and indecision
which has marked its actions abroad make it imperative ever so imperative that we have
a change of leadership and that we have a new direction.
Victory is our goal and with the help of all Democrats united and purposeful as I'm
sure they will be and under the leadership of Adley Stevenson we're going to achieve
that goal.
But we have a wider obligation than the winning of the presidency.
We have a great duty to win a Democratic Congress.
We have a duty to win state houses and court houses as well.
I hope and believe that in the execution of our responsibilities in this campaign we will
carry the Democratic Party, the whole Democratic Party to new heights of influence and to
power in this nation.
Ladies and gentlemen, I'm proud of the record of our Democratic Party and we will point
out that record.
But we're not going to run on our record alone.
As long as here in the United States we have people in adequate clothing and homes and
food.
As long as we have the working man unfairly treated by Republican inspired laws, as long
as we are not properly developing our natural resources, as long as the farmer is suffering
because of broken promises of this administration, as long as we have intolerance and indiscrimination,
and as long as we have a world in which we have only on uneasy peace with millions of people
underfed and seeking freedom, then we have challenges which we must solve for ragesely
and which we must tell the American people about.
We are going to again give our people and the people of the free world new faith and new
hope and on that basis we are going to win this election.
I do not think that tonight is the time for me to talk about the duties of the Vice
Presidency and what role he should play, but I will take just a few seconds to say what
his role should not be.
The chief function of the Vice President should not be that of a political sharpshooter for
his party.
It should not be that of providing this smear under the protection of the President's
smile.
We must not only be a party of criticism, we want to be one of inspiration.
What we stand for in this campaign is far more important than what we stand against.
And as a party of hope and inspiration, we must fire the imagination of young people
and the women who support we can and we must retain.
As your Vice Presidential candidate, I promise you, friends, that I will never demean
that high office to produce fellow Americans.
I will never use it to sow the seeds of division and of distrust.
In our party and in this campaign, we are not going to have one low road and one high
road.
In this party and in this campaign, we are going to have two high roads, both of them high
roads to victory.
Tomorrow morning, Nancy and I will be flying down to Tennessee to a farm to see our children
and they got a little rest for the campaign ahead.
Incidentally, we called up our four children late this afternoon, got them on the telephone.
They said that they had been having a caucus that they had seen this convention on the
television and they thought they might as well have a caucus too.
And they, I want to tell you what, they had decided in the caucus that they had.
Like in 1952, after I won my last political campaign, they said that as a celebration, we
had to buy a new station wagon.
So this time in their caucus, they said they had decided we had to take the station wagon
in and get Nancy a new convertible.
That's Mrs. Keith Alver with the Stevenson family.
I want to thank you for your confidence.
With the grace of God, with your help, we will work and fight through to a glorious,
democratic victory this fall.
Thank you.